e
e e
good morning folks how are
you just made it didn't
I actually
uh I was falling asleep watching some
YouTubers almost slept through the the
appointed time here
all right so let's go over here
and take a look at
what's going on for this
morning just doing a double check here
so I can hear my audio
one
sec no rush
today okay I can hear the old
man all right
so we
are looking at a 15-second chart on the
right hand side
and a one minute chart
on the
left okay just got
our
opening and I'm just going
to show you that we have a
huge premium Gap
there an enormous tool of liquidity up
here right up in
here all right
so I'll take that off and we'll
just every single time ICT puts
his cursor to the Chart it jumps you
can expect it always to happen
I know but you guys I'm ready for this
weekend I am ready
it is a holiday weekend just so you guys
know so there won't be any live stream
on Monday or Tuesday the reason why
because it's a it's a holiday on Monday
so because it's a holiday on
Monday I give the market a little bit of
time to to iron
out and he kind of Kinks it me have been
presented because of the holiday volume
so first first day after a holiday Bas
is what I'm
saying all right so there's
our opening
range
Gap and we're inside of the opening
range which is 9:30 to 10 o'cl
[Music]
so far so far we're a little wild in
here for
no Gap yet we have uh yesterday's first
presented Fair bad Gap here in green
just brought that over you want to carry
them through a 3-day life cycle after
the third day they're no longer in my
opinion all that terribly important they
can be used after that you know but I'm
my interest in them kind of waines after
that there's a small little area in here
relatively cool lows so a little bit of
cide resting under there too
clean nice little pop off of the
consequent corach of yesterday's first
presentation of the fair bag got formed
between beginning and end of opening
range it's 9:30 to 10:00
I that there laying in the uh the
morning room next to the puppies and I
was watching YouTube
videos and I just dozed off and I woke
up and I had that that moment when you
wake up in the morning you feel like
you're late for school and I'm 52 years
old I still have that
feeling still have that feeling I guess
it's youthfulness in the heart I guess
so I woke up look around like oh no I'm
thinking it's probably like after 10
o'clock or whatever how embarrassing I
slept through
so yesterday we were watching to see if
it could find its way up above that
19,000 scrunch it up on the chart you
can see
it this level here which formed a
quadruple Roa to equal High
and it just kept getting real close to
it getting real close to it get real
close to it and then finally it rolled
over came back and filled in yesterday's
opening range Gap and just gave up The
Ghost and that's what I was saying
yesterday whenever it starts out the
gate like that and even though I
outlined the silver bullet for you and
go back and watch that I even give you a
link in the comment section of
yesterday's live stream so you can go in
and see the actual moment if you click
on it says this what you're looking for
where I'm outlining the actual setup and
then each individual PD that you would
aim for and not even need the r to Beal
High to be taken which is what I said it
might it might not do it but I would be
more inclined to look for a
short if it would have pumped Above This
level here yesterday I absolutely would
have went short I had a conversation on
the phone a meeting with another
YouTuber yesterday and then uh took a
nap I didn't get a chance to see they
sell off which was very very awesome it
would have been nice to be a part of
that move there but
uh my attention was
elsewhere so the question is do they
want to leave all that juicy red meat
sitting above that
16,000 I'm sorry uh
19694 95 area going into this holiday
weekend or did he go up there and serve
them up on the altar
so as you can see we have no fair value
Gap
performed on the one minute chart for
today so far we haven't had that but
look at that pop right there off of
yesterday's first presented Fair Gap Now
find that and W off find that and
anything else's stuff I'm reminding you
all today because I'm still seeing it in
all the comment sections I see 's
concepts are not his Concepts and
they're renamed repackaged things find
it get $5
million you want to do expose videos
expose every PD array where it came from
where the logic came from if it ain't
mine if I didn't codify it where it come
from so these are all tradable and
notice the pop off of the consequent
encroachment of that after just tapping
underneath these relativ cool lows and
getting to the opening price at 9 30 see
that that right there could be your
model that could be one unique little
tiny little thing that you look for and
when you get it guess what you're doing
you're sitting still you're not doing
anything you're relaxing you're going
into a long weekend and everybody else
will be sitting here trying to figure
out what it's going to
do try to pass combines try to keep
their account
alive try to come back from draw down
maybe something to that effect
fact look for that one little unicorn
setup so they can go on social media and
say look what I
accomplished worship
me I tell you what I've had I've been up
since probably 414 420 something I woke
up and these puppies just don't want to
sleep for whatever reason they this you
staying awake so when they get up
everybody's going to get up
so I just went out in the morning room
was watching
YouTube so I'm looking at this
here extend this over
here this candle where we ran up into
the opening price there see
that the very next candle we traded down
to it here that's immediate rebalance
then we had this one here so it would
absolutely need to start you finding its
giddy up and
if it wants to reach and make a higher
high of the day because the rules for
immediate rebounds are the candle
immediately
touches this candle is the expansion and
that candle prior to it is that the
candle's high this candle opens trade
down to it that's immediate rebounds
usually if it's bullish it'll do that
and then run right up and do it maybe
sometimes in the same candle or the very
next candle here we went down one more
time and closed on the body so it's this
candle it's got to show some goody up
and goats it's got to be like go go go
otherwise it's problematic
now I would like to see all
of the animation the the the important
price action to occur going into noon
today because there's going to be a lot
of people that just simply going to say
I'm cutting big I'm not going to
participate and that liquidity will draw
up into a smaller smaller amount
therefore the algorithm won't be able to
spool and then use those buying and
selling
interests not pressure because as it's
going higher it wants to be able to
stack and print where orders have been
paired up buyers and sellers ma matching
together and it only needs one contract
to do that so look at that it's almost
like it's ma like it's magic right
immediate rebalance and just starts
behaving them in no manner that's almost
predictable wish I could do this live
wish I could do it in front of everybody
live I can talk about things before it
happens that could be impressive then
you'd love me all right so we're above
the opening range Gap here so this is
where it's important to see if we
maintain once we leave it does it have
the ability to keep on going higher or
does it come right back in because if it
comes back in
we're going for a deeper dive into the
opening range gap which is that blue
shaded area in here look how it's
behaved off of yesterday's first
presented fair value Gap isn't that
beautiful is that
beautiful that's the difference not
drawing an after the fact on Market
replay let me know what you guys are
doing this holiday weekend in
the comment section after I make the
live streams I go on my community post
on YouTube channel and I ask what did
you learn today in the live stream and
usually some goobers from India will say
you're is rambling like a nonsensical
idiot or a nut job and uh that's the
type of person that's never going to
make any money that's the kind of person
that's never going to learn how to do
this and that's the person that I see
their comment I laugh and I broom them
away away from the Chan and never see
their comment ever
again I don't entertain
morons so we have short-term sell side
short-term buy
side so we have this
[Music]
here side
and just the opposite down
[Music]
here Tanya trades sent you email I hope
she doesn't mind me saying this but uh
she did really really well using the
concepts I taught you all here
in this week about how to take your
profits your
partials and she was able to bank a
pretty good uh payout or I don't know if
it's a payout yet I guess she just
acquired it right so I don't know what
she's using if it's prop if it's her own
account I don't I don't claim to new all
that stuff but uh she said she did
pretty good so hopefully she'll talk
about today in her live stream which
I'll have to watch after the fact
because I'm preoccupied here now this is
normal like this is the type of uh price
action you see going into a holiday
weekend where it's just really just
muddy it's disorganized and I'm sitting
here talking and there's the first
presentation right
there so there's your first
[Music]
there's your first
U you got for the
day now we've already just swept Above
This minor buy side liquidity so it's
important not to get all that excited
about it yet it's got to prove
itself every new PD
array while we're climbing or if we drop
down you have to refer to what is it
reaching for next what you're trying to
reach to next like for instance we have
new week opening Gap August 18th above
us and we have the new day opening Gap
below us here so eyeballing it halfway
between that we're right in here for
event horiz
Rison and that is
like this little area in
between what people would expect for
candlesticks and and price charts and
such that range these are the types of
things I can use not all of them but
these are types of things I can use when
I'm not using a chart because I have the
the price points in raw form so all I'm
doing is is anticipating it running to
those levels and it's not in the chart
until it presents it and books at that
price okay so we had a nice little drop
down into the first fair value
Gap
here classic pre holiday weekend price
action it's almost like it's skitso like
it's it doesn't it doesn't know what it
wants to do it's like it's having an
anxiety attack itself
right like I don't know what I want to
do do I want to go here do I want to go
there and it's why it's real it's really
important just to
relax calm yourself in calm yourself
baby it's
okay no one's out the
kitchen so again we're we're real really
expensive here after the
open we had an initial drop down into
previous day's first fair value Gap
that's what this area is down
here then we rallied engaged the initial
buy side liquidity here and it's at
9:30 we pumped above it we formed our
first Fairway Gap in between 10: and
9:30 so that's first presented fair
value Gap we came back
into the opening range since making the
higher high
here back into that first fair value Gap
so we want to see here and monitor how
she behaves after doing
so you can see right away how this
imagine how
having all these levels on on your chart
if you don't know what you're looking
for from from a narrative stance like
what are you looking for for the daily
range what are you looking for for the
next real draw on
liquidity you're learning how to
navigate them because you're going to
see how they behave after the fact
you're studying them whereas I'm telling
you watch this one as it happens watch
how this is forming see if it respects
this it's a gradual understand you're
being exposed to so by having them all
on your chart at one time it just makes
it much more confusing if you don't have
direction if you don't have someone
that's obviously outlining it giving you
some kind of framework to use around
them otherwise it's just a whole bunch
of stuff which gives you know obviously
the trolls and the people that are lazy
or they have something to sell they'll
say of course it's going to hit one of
these levels it's going to hit all of
them and they're it's going to react off
all of them too but what I'm looking for
for is if it's if it's something that
should offer as
a a premium level does it repel price
lower or keep it from going
higher if it's something that's going to
act as a
discount is it able to hold price up or
is it easy easy for it to smash down
through it and then if you take that
information and you couple it with times
where there
are easy narratives that you're trying
to put in motion behind a trade idea
everything comes together and it becomes
very easy to engage Price look for
things for setups and you also learn how
to see certain things that may be
against your underlying bias underlying
uh premise that you want to operate in
for that day and you'll let those setups
go just let them pass without no concern
for
it so I I like to have this information
in raw number form in a notepad
so you
can all my notes here is what I refer to
and I keep my chart naked so I'm
constantly getting a measurement between
what price is doing what it can do and
I'm looking at the price axis on the
chart when it's naked
in relationship to where my levels are
that I'm watching which are just simply
the levels that I have noted here okay
so it's not something that uh now if we
go above here we have all this nested
new day opening gaps new week opening
gaps like they're layered in there so
it's going to take a real significant
price move to slice through that and if
it does that is indicative of
bullishness that means it's very very
strong if it's failed to get up there if
it fails to get there let say it that
way or it gets in there and it starts
struggling to get through each time
that's not indicative of like a fast
Market it's being
extremely motivated to get somewhere so
when we're watching how the algorithm is
booking
price whenever we have all these
clusters they're always going to act as
an initial draw but once it gets to its
lowest threshold which in this case here
is this new week opening Gap low on
August 18
like we would want to see it at least
try to get there and touch that but if
it fails to do that and goes below that
low here that kind of like it's it's
tipping its hand saying it's really
really difficult for me to be interested
in going any higher right now so
therefore I'm going to drop it's not a
lack of buyers and it's not an imbalance
and overcoming uh pressure of
sellers that's nonsensical so what we're
doing is is we're we're
measuring the the efficiency of price
getting
to these premium arrays all of these new
day opening gaps and new week opening
gaps and then once it trades to it does
it have the wherewithal the the
the the I guess the pursuit to to race
to even higher
PD
because in my
mind we have a long weekend
coming and anyone that was able to
capitalize and thinks they're short on a
a really good uh trade and they have
their stop loss above th those four
relative equal highs which is this price
level up here for that to be left intact
into the weekend and then starting next
weekend or next week after post holiday
volume you know
it's it's an easy thing to subscribe to
as an attempt to try to trade higher for
that that Express purpose but I'm
flexible in saying that well it doesn't
need to do it it doesn't need to do it
but it's something that we can observe
we can study we can watch and see how
price behaves and we have a very unique
opportunity to see it this way because
we have a lot of layered PD arrays when
it's all clustered up like this in the
form of those new day and new week
opening gaps so they can act as uh very
formidable barriers
we just fell short right there by a
little bit by a tick or
so now Caleb is being instructed not to
trade on Fridays going into holiday
weekends okay so uh Monday is going to
be a holiday it's like the big the last
big holiday of the summer in the United
States everybody Cooks out everybody uh
does their you know their home stuff
where they hang out with their friends
and family and whatnot so
because that's going to impact
trading even though you may not live in
the United States it will imp impact
what these price engines will do in the
marketplace so you have to be aware of
that so when do you think the high
probability trade setups are going to
form you think it's going to be before
we get to the last day of the week on a
holiday weekend or the Friday going into
the holiday
weekend clearly the easier price action
is going to be in the first part of the
week right so you can treat it as kind
of like a non-farm payroll week
all right so we just fell short of the
new week opening
Gap low here let me scrub it over here
so you can see it just fell short of it
there and it went right back down into
the range and
touched the high of the opening
range gap which is 9:30
open always in New York local
time so tapped the new day opening Gap
High August
27th and the
new days opening range Gap high or the
9:30 opening
price now what do you think this is
something for you to think about also
and it will give you some clarity
because next week once we start like
again live streaming which will be on
Wednesday I will not be live streaming
Monday I will not be live streaming on
Tuesday I'll put something up in a
pre-recorded lecture on both of those
days so that way you have something to
watch it won't be like really long like
the live streams are which are important
because I'm showing you live price
action and I'm commenting on things that
are pertinent over the same time that
you if you were watching in China to
trade these same periods of time you
wouldn't be wanting to trade a FIV
minute period of it in other words
you're trying to ask me to teach you
something that is deep has a lot of
information that's required
to kind of give you to understand you're
you're seeking but you don't really want
to go through the process because you're
impatient not all of you but the few of
you that compl complain about can you
make it uh shorter no there's your
answer so go watch someone else or stop
leaving these kind of comments because I
don't I don't entertain
them what do you think
happens no Daniel I haven't started
using the yeti cup you sent me but again
thank you so much has to be washed
before I use it the uh what do you think
it is like when you have a market that
doesn't have a lot
of
these layered new week and new day
opening gaps in close proximity to where
the Market's trading and it say it's a
little bit more distance between them
what do you think that does for trading
for that individual session or that
given day or week do you think that
makes trading a lot easier and cleaner
or does it complicate things and make it
harder for price to move
around it makes it cleaner and allows
price runs to have much more elongation
and the moves to protract further out
and it's like being on an interstate
highway real early in the morning before
the nineo fs and and the people that
work jobs get out there and go in that
congestion and traffic jams
so how do you know when it's going to be
a hard struggling
consolidation type of Market environment
where the markets are just real
shortlived when they run higher or lower
and it's this this is what you're seeing
when it has all this type of stuff here
when they're real close and it's giving
you lots of speed bumps basically okay
it impedes the flow and speed of the
algorithm because the algorithm is
constantly going to refer back to these
if it's within the time frame I'm
telling you when to use
them but here's the wonderful thing when
we have conditions like this where it's
layered like that and the market just
shows a no respect whatsoever and it
starts going through them or down
through them aggressively it's
indicating that it's showing you its
hand it's tipping its hand to you that
hey look um yeah these may be here and
you should be aware of them but I'm
absolutely in a hurry to get somewhere
so if you know what you're looking for
as a draw or if you know you're looking
for it's where a setup or something that
should materialize as a
uh um a Target it it helps
you kind of like mute the the natural
tendency to see okay these each one of
these things should be respected and it
should slow it down but I don't want to
see it slow it down I don't want to see
it slow down because because if we can
see it trade through them it's
indicating that it disrespecting them
and that's exactly what I want to see if
I'm bullish or bearish if I'm bearish I
want to see discount AR rise just get
destroyed and demolished you want to see
it just go through it like a juggernaut
just rip right through them because the
algorithm saying I'm not worrying about
these right now I have somewhere to go
and it usually is indicative of some
kind of imbalance below the price or
some kind of liquidity pool that they're
really going to Target that okay and
when I say they a guy like I don't know
he started watching my videos but they
are the hand that's that's the people
that own the algorithm okay you don't
see them they're not on CNBC you're
never going to know their name you're
never going to see their faces you're
never going to meet them you're never
going to get hired by them okay so they
are the holders of these price engines
it's their
Casino so when I say that the algorithm
does things without buying and selling
pressure it's true but there are times
when they will go in and influence them
manually and it'll dis it'll just
totally disregard what you would expect
to see and I can fall victim to that
just as well as you can fall victim to
that in other words what you trust and
see in price action it can just
completely go boom upside down and
they'll see like a FMC rate announcement
type reaction or a non-farm payroll um
they're all heavily manually intervened
that's not an absence of buying and sell
that is not an absence of liquidity
that's not an absence of in everybody
wants to trade those periods all of them
do but your Brokers many times they lift
the opportunity for you to get in there
so if they keep you from
executing and they're all doing at the
same time because they don't want to
take on that underlying risk where
someone can do what you guys are doing
with funded account challenges
overleveraging gambling and calling it
skill and you can get lucky now what
happens when you the entire world all
focused on the same
time in event expecting it to do what
move a lot and you get a chance to over
leverag in that well they can be B
booking you if they're B booking you or
if they're B booking the majority of
their client uh base in their brokage
firm and you can frown on that all you
want but it's the reality what happens
sometimes they could stand to lose a lot
and
potentially go
broke but but that's you know that's
probably some of those uh conspiracy
level
uh conversations probably not fit for
someone on
YouTube better suited on
a more controlled
medium which I'm actively trying
to put together put that
way it's not going to be a Twitter
space all righty then let's see uh
um so we found our way up to what looks
like the high is that no we just one
tick away from the high on the new week
opening Gap right
there so it takes a lot for me to have
all this stuff in my chart because I'm a
purist I like to have things um
clean and it allows me to kind of like
dial in and get in sync with price
especially since I'm only using my
laptop here I'm sitting on my bed so I
don't have all the real estate in front
of me I don't have the advantages of
seeing all the other time frames all at
the same time I'm literally just looking
at a one minute chart and I'm looking at
a 15sec
chart and there's no other information I
have here except for you know my notes
guy says you talk too much and trust me
when I tell you this nobody cares or is
interested in any thing about your
family or your life dude go kick
rocks cuz the guy that you said that to
in my comment section me I don't care
what you
think you're here watching my stuff I
don't even know who you are and I'm not
interested in knowing who you
are I've had more comments about the the
past stories and things I had to endure
than the things I'm teaching for trading
because people can resonate with that
because they feel the
pressure so we failed to get just
up to that one by one tick so again look
at the high so that's 19,6
26.50 oops wrong one sorry
28.75 and that high is uh
29 so it was not able to get to the high
of that new week opening gap on the 18th
of
August and she slipped a little bit
lower just coming back into the initial
High
formed at
9:30 just relaxing and letting her move
around we're in the 10:00 hour 6 minutes
after
10 Reaching back up into that 15sec cell
side and balance byy side efficiency
here right there
so we had several things that if you
were someone that's bullish or if you're
looking for things to go back in to the
price action today and study and do
framework around the setups for like it
this is where it bounced this is where
it traded from and up to a specific PD
array and you start hunting the old
price
action anything that jumps out at you
while you are doing these things each
day each week you're going to start
seeing things that your eye will jump to
and it's like I remember seeing this
before usually that's the one you want
to start with that doesn't mean it's
going to be your model for life it just
means that that's the that's the easiest
one to start working with and seeking it
in price action and if you can get
really good collection of old data where
you can find those conditions and you're
journaling them like we talked about
this week and you sugarcoat it with
positive selft talk and how good it felt
for you to see it when you really
weren't able to see it live and you're
tricking your
subconscious then because you've
activated your particular activating
system when you watch live price action
you just simped tape reading you'll
start seeing those conditions that
promote the likelihood of that scenario
forming in price action and if you're
not looking for it you'll miss it right
but if you're aware of what it is it
could be doing then you can sit there
and wait for it to form and it's really
encouraging to see things
that especially if you're not sharing
with other people don't tell somebody on
social media yeah I think this is what's
going to happen because then now what
you've done is you've increased the
level of needing it to be right needing
it to pan out because you don't want to
lose face in front of someone else's
witness you don't want to tell somebody
what you think and then if it doesn't
pan out you now just put money behind
that the kind of money that pays out
forever which is scar tissue you're
you're sharing your view about something
and they may be critical of you or they
may share that with someone else and you
may be confiding in them and then
someone else will come back yeah I heard
you doing so and so and so and so and
then what did you do you just compounded
a very small little exercise where it
should have no meaning to you
emotionally and it should never have the
ability or have the power to negatively
impact
you now you've supercharged it where you
being wrong about it where you didn't
have life money on it but you shared it
but you're sharing it because you want
other people that you shared it to come
back and say wow you were right about
that instead of just simply journaling
that and then doing those exercises of
continuously feeding that journal your
positive self talk recognition of the
the framework and the setups that you're
looking for and you're tricking your
brain into thinking that you have lots
of experience seeing these things form
live by doing that in the Journal so it
it overcomes the negative toxicity if
you allow it but if you let it come in
other ways like talk about your opinion
sharing your opinion on social media or
going back out on social media when you
get it right and championing that stuff
in front of other people uh that doesn't
that doesn't bode well for your trade
psyche it it's you're feeding this
desire to
be significant or liked or respected you
don't need to do all that stuff trust me
you could do everything in the world
right and make everything the right
decision and do it live and call it in
front of there's going to be people
saying yeah but you didn't do this
because they
suck all right so you see how
disorganized it is it's real sloppy
just it's got some reactions in here but
it just simply doesn't want to run
cleanly and it's because you have all
this conest like this congestion or
trash graic it's all this PD arrays
appear here in the new week New Day
opening Gap and we opened up rich so the
premium opening were still very very
expensive and folks that want to chase
it they're they're pulling back against
the market to unsettle them and why
would they want to do that because their
sell stocks can be accumulated for
buying
purposes and they're not letting the
people that are short hold on any shorts
CU it keep taking out the short-term
highs here and here and here and here
and anyone that has any strong
convictions on a very very shortterm
time frame they're it's causing them
doubt it's causing them concerns should
I be in here at all should I be doing
anything today it feels choppy the chop
is
real that's so
funny it's time Distortion is what it is
oh ICT you have a name for everything
yep wouldn't you expect that from the
leading trading
Authority the Encyclopedia branica of of
trading technical terms as a
me so we had relative equal lows here
and this little fair value Gap and a
bullish order block we've accomplished
all of that by running into it here so
what I'm watching is does it have the
wherewith all the get back above the new
week opening gap of August 18th or do we
slip back into the opening range gap
which is this blue box
here as a
reminder I don't want to be here long
today
because I don't want to be here long
today that's the reason there enough
that's enough reason for it okay I don't
owe you any explanations it's Friday on
my holiday weekend and I'm actually
tired and if I don't get a nap before my
wife wants to be doing something later
on Happ and get out of the house I will
regret it and it's nothing worse than
being jerg around looking at stuff you
don't want to be looking at and you wear
your emotions on your face because
you're tired and your wife says what's
wrong with
you I didn't take a nap I live stream
too long I had to I had to keep up with
the people's expectations don't love me
I have to win their
love oh so
fun nobody cares about your life and
your family
bro get to the topic of hand get to the
point point is
only some individuals that watch this
information and study it are going to be
successful with it most don't have the
right mindset and that's what we've been
primarily focused on this week small
little volume in Balance I'm watching
that one in here see if has any respect
for that or if it gets below it then
treats it as a premium array
back in New Day opening gap on the 16th
of August
[Music]
just trying to get a little bit more
real estate to go back through and
see what's available for liquidity and
any efficiency and it's probably you're
thinking how can you see it and all that
these 52y old eyes You' be surprised
what they can
see all right so take this
off put it up
here and
[Music]
right so when you have trading
conditions like this okay you have a
holiday end of week so it's Friday
there's no trading obviously on Saturday
and Sunday for us until 600 PM's
opening and I'm not interested in trying
to do a lot of
acrobatics and a lot of short-term type
of trading um not trying to do a lot of
Hit and Run strategies we buying and
selling buying and selling buying and
selling um if I can't determine where I
think it's likely to go into for a daily
or 4 hour or 1 hour pool of liquidity or
inefficiency then I won't trade it all
on a day like this going into a holiday
so in this instance where some people
will say ICT says never trade on Fridays
or ICT will say or they'll say ICT says
never trade on Monday and but look at
what I did today and that's completely
out of context okay it's completely
taken out of
context
generally I like to make money before
Friday because Friday can be like the
last little bit of a daily candle on say
if you look at a daily candle and it's a
bullish day usually the opens real close
to the low of the day and the close is
real high and near the high of the day
so if you're trading on a week that's
been bullish wouldn't it be reasonable
to expect that Friday doesn't really do
too much in terms
of volatility
it probably won't make a higher high on
the week it probably won't have a really
really deep retracement so it's going to
work in probably majority of what
Thursday's range was and may not even do
much more than its extreme higher low or
all it does is make just a little bit of
a higher high but doesn't really run any
further so I want to be doing things
where I have the the largest percentage
of probability in my favor that will
afford me the the luxuries of having all
of this range in front of me that I can
operate and engage
in but then now if you couple that with
what we're seeing here today where it is
a Friday getting ready to go into a long
weekend nobody should be trading heavy
on this day because there's a lot of
individuals that are not actually
engaging at all today they're not
trading and when I who who am I talking
about very Deep Pockets big big level
Traders are not in here doing they may
be managing open positions I'm not
saying that they're not doing that but
they're not looking at this and say wow
you know what man I have to get in here
like I have so much fomo I got to get in
here before the market closes day
because I just feel like I'm going to be
lucky that that that's not what that's
not what they do but most people don't
think that way they think well the
markets are moving around and bro every
day is a money making trading day so
there it is and that's not what
professionals think professional mindset
is different from faux fessional like a
faux fur coat faux fessionals is what
you're used to hearing the opinions from
people that act and talk like they know
something and they don't have anything
they have hindsight they have the
ability to talk about something in
Market replay or they sell courses or
they use rented mt4 servers they're
using a fake broker all those types of
things people will listen to them
because they're showing you rented
leased cars and they're going away to
Airbnb homes and renting them I'm not
talking about you Patrick so don't get
all offended and tore up because that's
not actually what I'm talking about but
I can see how you might be thinking that
or you're listeners might thinking that
but the opinions of folks like that they
have such a huge influence over neopit
folks that don't know what they're doing
and if you take the logic of how you
should behave or manage risk or invite
risk into into decisions
financially is that Sound Logic and I
would respectfully submit to you no you
want to have someone talk to you that
tells you where you're likely to get
hurt when is the market likely to give
you so much of a struggle to
perform it doesn't matter what type of
trading style you use it's going to be a
really challenging Market condition and
by having the the X-ray view of having
new day opening Gap and new week opening
gaps known to you in close proximity to
where the markets are trading when
you're watching them and you couple that
with an economic calendar event like we
have here we're getting we going into a
long weekend trading is is going to be
lackluster the volume is going to be
really really light and that's not
saying see he's talking about volume so
that proves it's buying and selling
pressure no if I'm going
to want to engage in price action and I
want to be a busy Trader like I want to
be in there short-term trading intraday
up down going all around
I want to be in a environment that has a
lot of participants because the
algorithm will move around and the more
interest than buying and selling in that
day not at that given moment as it
spools higher or lower there's always
individuals going in and chasing it and
that stacking of marketto Market booking
of price it doesn't matter how many
contracts or or the volume is at those
individual given prices you're you're
putting too much EMP empasis on the
things that don't
matter you have to have the stage for
price to move around and if you don't
understand how that stage is set or what
it looks like what are the conditions
that promote very clean price
runs you won't be able to trade
efficiently you'll you'll trade the same
way every given day and then when it's
bad you'll over trade over leverage
thinking that the next trade's going to
be the one the next trade's going to be
the one not realizing that you're
Trading inside of the mud okay or you're
trying to trade with a a bias or a level
of expectation that market is just
simply not going to yield to you and
give it to
you and the way you get to that
understanding is by doing back testing
looking at Old price moves
inside uh having the logic of the new
day opening Gap and new week opening
gaps on your
charts and then studying how it behaves
and then look at the economic calendar
do we have holidays do we have big news
events earlier in the week or later in
the week and that's all going to be
impactful all right so we're back into
and just underneath
the first Fair Val got for
today this is actually right here
but in Day morning session day
session that low is here so if it's
going to go there it would clean that up
but I'm watching to see if we get back
above the fair value Gap formed first
today between 9:31 and 10:00 which is
this one right
here so how do you prevent yourself from
going on tilt and pushing pushing
pushing and having a sharp knife a
really good trading model you honed it
you sharpened it up back testing forward
testing demo trading it so now here you
are you got your sharp edge you have
your knife you got an edge in the
marketplace how do you dull it and make
no money and blow your account push push
push push real hard in environments
where you have all this congestion of
new day new week opening gaps and it's
showing you that it's not trying to do
very much beyond that
and look at them look at the
trading
it's reaching High sure but it's a lot
of reactive uh
retracements and it just feels like it's
skitso erratic let's just say it that
way so easier probably
more politically correct
term but you don't ever really want to
be pushing your um your Edge you want be
doing that on Fridays going into long
weekends because the market tends to be
a little bit more fickle on these days
now there are times in the past where
I've expected it to be lackluster to
simply not do much at all and then all
of a sudden it just boom you know
there's this big rush of price wanting
to go somewhere real fast and it makes a
just a really good fascinating study and
most most of the times I'm usually not
in those types of moves because I've
already reclined myself to the hey I'm
not going to do anything that day
because it's Friday g into a long
weekend and I might look at price I
might hang out with my private students
look at certain things or I'll just say
you know I'm going to do what everybody
else with you deeper pockets are going
to do they're just going
to roll their stops to where it's
manageable and just let it go where it's
going to go and simply not worry about
what price is doing on it on a day like
today but because my son's learning how
can he learn these lessons unless I do
it over the actual price action and
explain the logic the the mindset around
that given type of scenario both
technically and from an economic
calendar stance and then we also have
the holiday impact so holidays are
absolutely going to be detrimental to
you if you don't consider how the lack
of volume and interest in pushing you
know a lot of Trades into that given
session or at given
day you want to be in days where there's
no
impediment that's going to cause Deep
Pockets big big entities not everyday
Traders on Twitter or Facebook or
Instagram that's not what I'm talking
about I'm talking about institutional
level order flow coming through if
that's not going to be piped into the
marketplace the days that you're
watching
price chances are you're not going to
get really clean price action
so right now we have a cell side and
balance B sign efficiency
here and we have liquidity resting rate
below
here and the first fairbay gap of today
is right
there we just traded down into
yesterday's first presented fair value
Gap so we are looking at today's here
and again this chart on the right hand
side to 15sec chart and this is
yesterday's first presented fair value
gap between 9:31 and 10 o' in the
morning
think about how many times that price
has engaged
the August 18th new week opening
Gap here with that new day opening Gap
inside I mean go back through because
we're Friday now when session closes
today sometime on Saturday or sometime
on Sunday really go through charts and
see how many times and at what time of
day the market traded into
this area here how did it behave what
type of formations did you see was there
any price runs that you could have
framed a setup
on what what did it aim for what did it
uh do in terms of the time from a fairby
gap or a low being taken before it
starts running the opposite direction
how how much time did it take for
something like that and how much of a
range did it move and can you frame a
logic of how it went to this level that
started the Run either going up into it
and dropping like his or when it was
above it and dropping down and going
back higher you know framing those types
of things in your back
testing that's the that's the first
beginning point of you finding a
limitless supply of
setups I'm going to use an analogy I
know
something probably I've never done that
before never used an analogy before but
we're going to go back to uh the
Hunter's premise
okay your dad is a hunter okay you're a
young boy he wants to show you the ways
of a hunter so he says son get up get
out of bed get dressed get your coat and
boots on follow me into the
woods so he walks you around he shows
you the the tracks in the snow and says
this is what the deer track looks like
and you go out there on a Saturday
morning and then new snow falls
overnight and he walks you back out
there on Sunday morning and where do you
expect to see those deer tracks where
you saw them the last time because if
you see them in the same location that
means that they're walking in that area
and that's a that's a
route kind of like a a pathway that they
keep
using so it would be logical for you and
your dad to put a hide
okay usually like a tree stand or a
little uh if you want to spend a little
bit more money you it's called a hide
and you place all of your stuff in there
and spray all your descent all over so
that way the the smell of you aren't on
all this stuff and then that way you can
come back the following
weekend re early in the
morning and you sit up there and you
wait and you wait for the deer to come
through that path pathway that you know
you have seen evidence you have you went
back testing into the snow looking for
this this this deer trap so you you know
what it looks like and it keeps
happening the same way all the time in
this General vicinity well that's that's
a framework for a setup that is a
model the hunter is establishing his
hunting model is I'm going to
hunt this setup the setup is the ear
keeps going through this area I know
it's there because I keep seeing its
tracks well the algorithm is teaching
you oh sorry I'm teaching you that these
setups form around specific elements of
price around specific times of the
day and if you can focus on
understanding what they are that are
uniquely interesting to you some of
every Hunter out there doesn't like to
hunt every
I have a cousin of mine he's like he
hunts a lot of stuff but he's hunted a
bear before he's he's killed one with a
bow and I believe he's shot one but he's
not in a hurry to go out and do it again
because it rushed on him like and he
said it was scary to see how fast this
thing was running at him how fast it got
from where he was seeing it and he he
hit it but then they started running at
him now in my mind I'm
thinking if you hit it why would it why
would it want to come at you like I
would expect it to run away he said no
this thing was growling like crazy he
had to pull his pistol out and shoot it
several times as it was coming at him
and that's what put it down he doesn't
want to hunt bear anymore so every
Hunter out there doesn't want to hunt
everything but they do have their
preferences so what does that mean they
have their unique model as a hunter they
want to hunt deer they want to hunt elk
they want to hunt turkeys and they maybe
they're a duck hunter something to that
effect so
so what you want to do is go back in
price
action and look for these setups that
give you this repeating phenomenon okay
and I'm going to cover a lot of those
things next week so that
way at the end of next week you're going
to have a whole lot more understanding
on what it is you're trying to do or at
least the very minimum it'll give you a
starting point the following week you'll
know what you're going to start looking
for there because I'm going to give you
a lot of different ways to to use higher
time frame charts and break down with a
market uh top down approach where you
can go in and say this is what I can see
happening and because it's based on the
logic I'm going to teach you next week
you'll be able to have the confidence
that you hear me talk with all the time
and my students also they know their
model and because I have so many
different models and I have the ability
to make a new model every single day
because it's based on principles that
the algorithm is going to behave a
certain way around certain types of
events and it sounds esoteric right now
but I promise you next week you're gonna
like wow this isn't complicated this is
really easy and it'll give you a mindset
that it doesn't matter if you miss a
move it doesn't matter if you have
hardship and you go into a little bit of
a tail spin you lose some today or
tomorrow or maybe you lost some money
this week trying to do
something and you realize that you
weren't ready to do that or you just did
it wrong and you're probably beating
yourself up about it okay just relax
because when you're when you're a neoy
and you don't know really what you're
looking for and you're mostly reacting
or you're following the the opinions of
a of a live streamer or you're following
signals in a Discord Channel or a
telegram Channel or you're part of a
Facebook group or you're part of
something okay and you're not the the
Catalyst that gives you the set up
you're just reacting you're like a like
a a poor person with a pan holding out
saying please feed me I don't want any
of my students like that I want you
being able to go out and get your own
food and have more than enough to take
care of you your household and maybe a
friend or two and over time be able to
bless even more people but you have to
have some kind of logic right that says
I know I am going to get a setup
this time this day and I know it's going
to form like
this that gives you what it gives you
confidence because you're leaning on the
logic that there is an algorithm if you
doubt there's an algorithm next week
you're going to have a real hard time
sleeping at night if you think you want
to take the opposing side of that
argument because there is an there is an
algorithm and you'll be able to see
these setups coming way in advance and
what the higher form of understanding
would be is that you know when they're
going to form before the calendar date
gets
there think about that think about that
and contrast that with everything you
see in retail trading in retail trading
they have to wait until an indicator
flashes something on the screen it has
to compress and calculate old price
moves and number Crunch and it gives you
some kind of an output and that output
is the Catalyst it's the the triggering
mechanism for you to determine whether
you need to be buying or
selling I'm light years ahead of all
that stuff I'm looking for setups on
days that aren't even in this month's
calendar and it's not always the
economic calendar but those are the ones
I can easily communicate to students
which is why it's important for you to
know the economic calendar you should
always on the weekend look at the next
month to come where's the heavy hitter
where's the medium impact and the high
impact news drivers when are the days
that doesn't have any news before the
high impact news
drivers because those days that don't
have news and there's a big heavy impact
news driver later in the week like fomc
something like that see the public
thinks the casino's open on that day the
casino's open on non nonfarm payroll
Friday but the professional not the
fessional the fessional are the gurus
the WN toe mentors the people out there
that are trying to play influencers and
they're not really making any money and
they're not doing anything that
technically is sound they're just
gambling they will be expecting to trade
heavily in those on those days and yes I
teach that my students can trade those
days after the initial shock wave of
whatever that news impact driver
is but not before and hold no opinions
going into them so you have that way
you're very flexible you're you're
liquid when you go in into the
marketplace you're going to you're going
to take the information that is given to
you initially and usually on those
impact news drivers the first run is the
fake one so we let the suckers like PT
baram we let them come in get
altered get Altered States when they get
wrecked okay and what they've done and
made a mistake of trying to be the first
Mouse to get the cheese you just walk up
gingerly after this the Trap is snapped
and that that first mouth is dead you
just casually walk over there and pick
up the cheese and just go about your
business that's how I teach my students
to trade that's how I look at the
marketplace I want someone to go in
there and get wrecked
first and there are times as I'll teach
you next week how you can anticipate
that event happening before it even
forms in price action you'll know where
the setups
form I'm promising you next week you're
going to learn how to anticipate setups
where and how form so that means you
have opportunities and when you see how
you're able to find them and I'll give
you schools of thought that way it's not
just one or two of them like if you've
studied my core content lectures on this
YouTube channel the 2016 2017 lecture
notes all through that stuff okay if you
go through that and you also look at
month Forest content and that's uh month
four core content it should say 2016
month four core content or something to
that effect I don't remember exactly
what it was but that's the month I
introduced the initial PD Matrix where
these are the PD arayes you're going to
look
for all you have to do is come to the
conclusion of which one you're going to
use which one makes most sense to you
okay and that would be something all of
you should do this weekend is watch that
month four content it's about eight
videos they're not very long you can you
can go through them just this over
tonight Saturday and Sunday and then
relax comeing to uh uh Wednesday's next
live stream next week because I'm not
again I'm not live streaming on Monday
I'm not live streaming on Tuesday and
any video I put up on Monday and Tuesday
I promise it'll be short probably like
minutes because I want you to try to
absorb what I put out this week because
I I covered a lot of important Salient
things to help you overcome the natural
tendencies that Traders and developing
Traders go through and never get past
and or Beyond because they this can't do
it they allow their their personal
baggage their problems their character
flaws to unsettle them or hold them back
so we did a lot of
psychological discussions this week
which are pertinent and they're useful
not if you're uh someone's just trying
to get in here and try to push a button
you know those type of people they're
they're they're going to be bums the
rest of their life that's their
mentality about everything they expect
it to be given to them for free and easy
and fast then they should be able to
learn right away first time you talk
about it and that's the sem myopics you
an idiot it's an idiot it's what it is
and you can't train idiots I can't teach
an idiot I can't fix stupid so the folks
that have gone through and there's a lot
of the
feedback that was saying hey you're
talking about me right now like you're
describing me this week and it was
comforting for them to hear me talk
about these things because it helps them
see that yeah these are things that are
not just happening in your head you're
not the only one that's ever experienced
those things and I've shared many things
open and candidly
see how we're using the
uh new day opening Gap low on the 7 uh
27th here and then the high of it and
then the new day opening Gap here me
think about look over here what support
resistance level you see over there none
look how it's respecting that it gives
you an x-ray view of what price should
be doing and then if you think back how
when I was on baby Pips and I was
showing you trade examples and I was
recording myself trading and all the
years I was on uh Twitter and recording
trade executions and putting songs
behind them
um this is the information that you
don't
see I wasn't trying to share it with
anybody and it was fun it was
entertaining for me before I even did
mentorships like in 2016 the uh the
comments were always entertaining like
how is he able to see like what is he
seeing these are just some of them I
have lots of other tools I have lots of
other things that I'm not going to teach
all that stuff but look at what you can
accomplish with just having this
information on there it gives you
structure it gives you a way of
determining what price could be
influenced by and it's not retail level
anything and it's never going to fall
out of fashion because it's based on
very generic principles of how a Market
opens how a market has inefficiency if
there's an
inefficiency if you have an if you're
def if you're a deficient okay in
vitamin C you're going to get sick it's
you're going to be weak you're going to
be more susceptible to getting diseases
and
illnesses so if you fortify your body
with vitamin C supplements and your diet
is enriched with having grapefruit
orange things of that nature and
anything Citrus that will boost your
vitamin C Level so therefore your immune
system will be strengthened and and and
increased and you'll be able to saave
off diseases and or illnesses well how
if the market okay if the market is a
living organism if we're just going to
personify for a minute say it's a living
organism if it's deficient on
something and the lifeblood of the
market is liquidity it needs it to to
live it
moves on the basis of liquidity
if there isn't any
liquidity in a certain price
range that means it's
inefficient and it can do things
like lore
engineer promote the ideas that hey
maybe Traders should use this level for
an area to buy or protect a open
position they may have or likely to
encourage them to put on that's
engineering ing liquidity that's a real
thing inducement is some Jokers that got
leaked content from me and created
mentorships and that is not a real thing
okay um just like smart money traps are
not a real thing if you think you're
seeing a smart money trap you're just
looking at things without the proper
understanding of my smart money my smart
money Concepts you're you're deficient
in understanding you're uh
inefficient in logic and sound ICT l
you don't know what you're doing so when
you have a full panoramic view of what
price is going to refer to how it's
going to behave what it's going to use
what it can use to draw interest in
pulling the the heart strings and the
greed strings of every Trader's U
natural
tendencies that will cause them to chase
price it'll cause them to move their
stock
and put it in an area that they are
trained by books and other Educators out
there that use retail logic to use a
high or relative equal highs because
that's resistance and everybody thinks
the same way they're putting their stop
above there or below old lows the same
way
and the market will go to these areas of
inefficiency because it's it's deficient
in having its life blood which is
liquidity in that area so it's going to
place place it there it has nothing to
do with buying and
selling the the mannerism in which the
price will behave and how it goes to
these inefficiencies or where the
liquidity is because there's buying and
selling going on The Price is going to
keep being offered higher higher higher
higher higher if it's going to go higher
it's going to keep going there
regardless of how much buying is going
on because all it needs to do is have
one contract traded one person willing
to buy it one willing to sell it at one
contract volume so the open interest in
the selling side and the buy side it's
paired there you have you have one trade
mark to Market so your time and sales
will be marked and your price and my
chart your chart everybody else is
watching around the world they'll see
that that fluctuation between the last
tick that was marked to Market and the
new next trade the difference between
that our charts is showing that
fluctuation I'm not looking at these
candlesticks and measuring or trying to
measure how how many contracts are being
bought or sold but that's just a
beautiful red herring for people because
they think that's what's going on and
it's not the Market's just simply going
to go to a level that you don't
understand the mechanics or why it needs
to go there but it's for the express
purposes of providing liquidity and or
Patchwork this already spilled the beans
this week they're they're putting in a
little bit of a patch where there's been
no real efficient delivery of price
and once it trades in there it's it's
considered okay now I've I've at least
done my job I'm I'm personifying the
algorithm I've done my job
as a mode of delivering efficiency for
that price range now where do I go next
okay well if I went up to that
inefficiency is there a reason for me to
trade to the liquidity above that
inefficiency or am I going to stick to
the existing cell model that I'm or cell
program that I'm in and I'm going to
reprice lower to engage lower prices not
because it sees your stops not because
it knows how many contracts are sitting
below old low or above an old high it
doesn't have that capacity to do that it
doesn't know that and the people that
try to well this is why it's uh scam ICT
stuff is a scam there is no algorithm
you have literally no understanding
what's going on you have no idea what's
going on and it sounds arrogant it
sounds kind of sending but it's the
truth you don't know what's going on and
what's worse is when people work in the
financial industry and they say dude I
was working on the floor or I was a I
was a a desk Trader or I was a market
maker no you're a dealer you're dealing
in price that you don't make you can
only buy and sell in the delivery of
price that's being piped into you you
don't originate price you don't do that
you're dealing with it you're dealing
just like anybody else is dealing it
you're just taking one buyer and one
seller okay and you might
facilitate the other side of that okay
okay you're do you're doing nothing
different than we are if I buy something
there's going to be a seller on the
other side of that or I'm not getting
filled how's that any different you're
dealing but they call these people
market makers and they feel like they're
part of this this upper echelon top tier
they're the superior minds and I have
had people with those titles literally
challenge me and then look at what they
do and they can't even call the market
right because they're dealers they're
not Traders they're not to see what the
Market's going to do they have no
analytical studies behind them they just
make the market oh I was a options uh
Market maker I did this and I did that I
was a crude oil Market maker okay tell
me what the Mark's going to do let's sit
in front of a live uh live price feed
and let's talk about what what the
Market's going to do how's it going to
behave how's it going to gate around
what's it going to reach for because
they will fail miserably perfect example
okay you can take an industry
professional okay you can take an
industry professional someone's done
something that you'll never be able to
do now which is floor
trade Floor Traders I have a lot of them
in my mentorship they were actually in
the pits at the CME and Chicago Board of
Trade these fellas were down there and
ladies they were down there and they had
the unique perspective of being able to
get the feel when the markets were
shifting and they didn't have charts
they had a little notepad a tiny little
me Notepad okay or whatever their ticket
book was and they would it would scratch
down they would had their floor pivot
numbers which is you know back then that
was a big thing
but they had no technical mechanism what
they were plugged into is they were
right there and when the pits came alive
and there was a lot of excitement and
they see man dude we're on a run we're
running all they had to do is look at
yesterday's high and yesterday's low and
where are we at with the floor pivot
numbers they have okay we have enough
range between where we're at right now
it looks like it's running and there's
more there's more Runners coming to the
pit right now bonds are running like
they're running where's it going to go
well we're at S1 right now so it could
go where to the central pivot level or
it can go to R1 or R2 and then guess
what if R1 is just above yesterday's
high they got a real good chance of
getting a run to yesterday's high and
once they pop that boom that's their
buying that's not
technical that's just very simple logic
but see when that's what you're doing
and you get caught up in that feed
of chasing that that excitement
everybody everybody's buying right now
look at all the buying coming in buying
buying buying buying they all they're
going to do is scalp that
momentum and then now those same
individuals that are dinosaurs now like
me you were trading back in when it was
open out cry pits all you young young
guys and gals this new era of electronic
trading and habit right now
mentality you would never survive back
then it would have chewed you up and
spit you out but now the luxuries that
they had and the afforded Insight that
the unique perspective that they had
being there when you're in the pits and
it's quiet and it's just like real
lackluster trading and all of a sudden
all these Runners are coming in with
tickets oh man there's a lot of
excitement boom bo boom what's price
doing it's going
up well what's what's it probably
reaching for they know what yesterday's
high was they know what yesterday's low
was and they see what the orders
are they see it everybody wants to get
out at this level at this level so they
can see it's like dog piling dog pil dog
pil okay so the floor guys on the floor
they would capitalize on that
momentum but they don't have that
Advantage now and that's why the
majority of them unless they use the
things that I'm teaching you here which
is the bridge between how that open out
cry activity was useful then you can
still see it here here in the price
action you just don't hear it and you
don't have all the shoving and and and
the crazy commotion around you which I'm
sure Jacks you up with adrenaline I
would I would have loved to be a part of
that like I would have loved been to had
that experience but that's why most
Floor Traders
suck most and if if you're one of them
listening okay and I I'm sure I have
some of them that are listening and
there's people like TOP Step guys I'm
I'm not taking a shot at you guys okay
I'm not I love the the fact that you're
out there doing what you're doing but I
think if you were
honest you would tell the stories that
were very similar and in line with what
I'm saying here it's a hard bridge to
cross from being in the pits having that
advantage of getting to feel for what
the market on like you're you're
literally holding your finger on the
pulse of the marketplace if you're down
in the pits like you have the first feel
of when things are
happening and people like myself where
we had charts or quote TRS you know
really are like behind like the Market's
already running and it's now oh yeah
it's probably done but you have it you
see all the rush if you're a Floor
Trader back then years ago you have all
that Insight that off Floor Traders
don't have but that role has been
flipped now those same Floor Traders are
forced to trade technically from a chart
and the majority of them can't do it
they can't they might have once in a
while you know success here and there
but it's such a hard paradigm shift to
come from with from because that's how
they made their
money you know those those seats on the
floor they're not
cheap and you have to survive and a lot
of people might make you know make
enough money to afford to get down there
but they don't stay there unless they're
company place I mean the folks that go
down there with their own money you you
can't you can't you can't survive unless
you know what you're doing and the cost
associated with it is just it's not it's
not feasible for someone who doesn't
have a real Edge and back then their
Edge was the pulse of the market the the
fevered pitch of something occurring and
what's it likely reaching for oh
well they have not had the opportunity
to take the
logic that they had back then and place
it into a
chart they're looking at technical
things like vwap and volume profile and
all this other stuff that doesn't really
do anything for you it's just an excuse
for why you're doing something you have
to replace what you used to do or if
you're a brand new student and never
traded before that's a perfect excuse
for you say okay I'm I'm that's my thing
I'm looking for but that doesn't equate
to the same things I've been teaching
for decades saying this is why the
markets really move this is what the
markets really trying to
do so a troll will take away ICT said
the top step Traders suck not the
traders that use it but the folks that
operate and run there like hog and
Michael Pak and I don't know if there's
any other four Traders they might be
they might be working look at the back
end of but I'm not saying that they suck
because I'm trying to troll them ask
them frame it in a proper respectful
tone inquiry in their chat and say you
know ICT said you probably had a hard
time or experience hardship because the
added uh advantage of being on the floor
and you can get the fevered pitch of the
order flow that's coming through
pit I promise you if they're honest
they'll tell tell you it it's a very
hard transition from doing it that way
and going to technical charting off the
floor and the things that they had as an
advantage there that we would never be
able to
have is not afforded to them anymore so
they're forced to look at things with a
different perspective and because they
have nothing else to go on except for
now I got to look at a chart so what
what's popular right
now vwap volume profile those types of
things and none of that stuff in my
opinion doesn't really hold
water they're just excuses like anything
else would be to get into a
trade all right so we've had all this
jaggedness here on the upside and we're
going into 11 o'clock there's lots of
cell sides sitting right under here so
it should dive under that
so we came out to this in efficiency
here drop down
used all the levels didn't quite get
into that on anything here on the
upside but look at this day right now
take a screenshot of what you have on
your chart not mine your your screen
with all of the data that's over here is
that a day you want to be
trading now any of you didn't want to be
a contrarian whatever I say or if I if I
pose a question and you think I'm going
a certain direction with it you'll say
yeah of course this is this is my thing
this is my bread and butter this is what
I do that's why you're not good ICT
because you don't see it like I see it
but would you feel inclined to trade in
an environment like that this is what it
looks like on a Friday going into a long
weekend is it clean price action no is
there setups
absolutely but it but but would it be
reasonable for me to expect my son Caleb
to navigate these types of uh conditions
in the marketplace absolutely not as a
brand new technically oriented student
not someone that's going out there
already making money with it he's
learning his aptitude for this is very
much similar to what most of you have
right now and you may be new that's
about what he
has it seems easy oh that's a fair value
Gap there's the socks I just tagged
right there it seems easy when I'm
pointing out a fair value Gap and it's
like okay I'll just go into a chart then
you realize it's not as easy as I
thought it was because you haven't back
tested you haven't studied it but you're
trying to walk forward with it and test
it
mid Gap is see a little dot right there
there your mid Gap we hit that didn't
hit it between uh before 10:00 though
but we have Gap closure and 3/4 of the
Gap potentially uh in play here
[Music]
see if we can roll over here and dig
down one more time in that Tuesday's
low notice how Tuesday's low
here they've used that low a lot this
week it's also in the lower end
of the opening range
Gap I didn't see any cuss words today
did I
oh my
goodness ICT is turned to
Leaf ICT is a character that some of you
get wrapped up into too much
coming back up
into an old
inefficiency I just carried it over into
uh
today seeing that let me roll this back
I don't like that be able to see the the
chart this Candlestick here when we had
this sell sign bounce buy sign
efficiency the low of that c is the
Candlestick right there and then we
traded up to it here so all this
movement here this is a institutional
order entry drill minor Celli here we
have a PDA right here and the draw to
Tuesday's
low this
Candlestick is a bearish order block
that opening price right
there that is your change in the state
of delivery when we're looking at said
to see if it rolls over and and makes
another attempt to get down that
Tuesday's low that roll over right
here that might be your
model get 25 handles out of that and
done if I could be honest and hopefully
I'm not kind of
like well I'm not going to say the
person's name because I don't want to
embarrass them and I don't want to have
any kind
of I don't want to have any kind of
feelings brought into it because this
person knows who they are I I talked to
a particular
person that spends time online and I
have been trying to inspire them subtly
without saying try this and this this
this be like dogmatic about it and then
uh I'm trying to inspire them to look
for setups like this because they're
very very short-term strategical strikes
get in get out and it's everything
they're trying to do and it's delivered
to them on a silver platter real quick
just like that
and they're very fast they don't they
don't last very long but in the
beginning these are the types of setups
that I want my son to focus on because
it's immediate feedback and allows him
to to get what he's looking for and be
done for the day and then watch the rest
of the day without having any kind of
need to
right all right so that's going to be it
for today uh I told you this week the
lessons would be a little dry but I
covered a lot of things that I want my
son to know how to think how to avoid
certain pitfalls and we're going to cap
it here and be done I wish you all a
very pleasant weekend again reminder I
will not be live streaming on Monday or
Tuesday next week the next live stream
will be
Wednesday um I'll determine if it's
going to be a London session or not but
we're going to do a London session
sometime next week and I'll just leave
it up to how I feel going into Tuesday
night going to bed I'll determine what
what time we'll be doing it so go to my
community tab on YouTube channel to find
out what that will be for Wednesday
until I talk to you then be safe this
weekend